Hello everyone.
In this lesson we will take a break from styling our Web site and we will use this time to learn about
get branches.
Our goals for this lesson are to understand what in the world a branch is.
We want to learn how to create a new branch.
We want to learn how to switch between or check out different branches.
And finally we want to learn how to merge one branch into another.
All right so let's cut this introduction and get started in order to answer the question.
What is a get branch.
I want you to jump into your command line and run a few commands with me now currently in my command
line I am running the Web pack Dev task which means at the moment I'm not able to type in any new commands
here.
Now I could press control C to quit this web pack task but I actually want to let that continue to run
so that we can access the web pack dev server from this local host calling 3000 address in the browser.
So if I want to leave this task running what I can do is just open up another command line.
Now luckily V.S. code makes this very easy to do.
We have a couple of options we can click this plus symbol icon and that will open up a brand new command
line and you can use this drop down menu to switch between the two instances.
So this is the one command line and this is the new command line.
You can always get rid of an extra command line by clicking into it and then clicking on the trash icon
or to have multiple command lines you can also click this icon if you hover over it.
It says split terminals if you click that now you have two command lines but they're side by side.
So it's up to you.
But big picture we just want to have two command lines.
This one will continue to run our NPM run Dev task and in the other command line we are free to type
in commands.
All right.
So let's get back to the topic at hand.
Get branches.
I want you to run the following command get and then a space and then branch go ahead and press enter
this command will list all of the branches in our repository.
Now at the moment it's not much of a list because we only have one branch and its name is Master.
We can think of a branch as a version of our project.
And typically we think of the master branch as our primary or main or live or production version of
our project.
And this means that usually we don't want to commit work in progress code to the master branch.
What we want to do instead is to create a new branch for each new feature or experiment that we want
to work on this way within those new branches we are free to try new things without running the risk
of breaking something within our master branch.
So let's go ahead and learn how to create a new branch.
Now before we create a new branch we want to make sure that we currently have a clean working directory.
That just means we don't want to have any uncommitted changes.
So if we go ahead and run get status you can see that I personally have several files that haven't been
committed yet.
If you've been diligent and have been committing your progress at the end of each lesson.
Kudos to you.
But if you haven't.
That's not a problem right now.
Let's go ahead and add any uncommitted files to our staging area if we want we can add them one by one.
So for example if I wanted to add this file to my staging area I can just type get add and then the
path to that file.
So app slash index start each TMM.
Now if I run get status once again we see that that file has been staged to be committed.
Perfect.
But adding each of these files one by one is a bit of a hassle.
So instead you can just type get add dash uppercase a and that will add everything to the staging area
in one fell swoop.
So now if I type get status I have the chance to review my staging area before committing this.
Now this looks good to me but maybe in your instance you see a file on this list that you actually don't
want to commit.
So maybe along the way you accidentally created a bogus file or you have an extra misspelled file name
and let's say that you want to remove a file from the staging area.
So just as an example if I wanted to onstage the h t email file I can just type get reset and then the
path to the file so app slash indexed on each t amount and if I run get status again we see that that
removed the file from the staging area.
So hopefully that helps you manage your staging area a bit.
Now in my case I do actually want to stage this file so I'll just say get at all once again.
So at this point I'm happy with my staging area and I want to make a comment so I can just type get
commit dash n and include a message for this comment let's say completed large hero block and intro
content block.
All right.
So after we make a commit here's the moment we've been waiting for.
If we type get status now this is what we've been looking for.
This is music to our ears working directory clean.
So now at this point we are ready to create a new branch creating a new branch is as simple as typing
get branch and then the name of the new branch that you want to create.
So in this case let's say that we want to work on a new feature where at the very beginning of our H
PML we add a bulleted list that counts from 1 to 10.
We would never do this in the real world but let's just use it as an example exercise.
So let's name our new branch count dash two dash 10 count to 10.
All right.
So now if we run get branch to see a list of all of the branches in our repo we see count to 10 and
master the star next to master indicates that it's the branch we are currently working with.
So our next step is to switch over to the new count to ten branch or in get terminology we want to check
out the count to ten branch.
So to do that we just type get check out and then the name of the branch that we are interested in.
So count to 10.
All right.
So now we are working with the new branch.
Let's jump to our text editor and OPEN UP index dot HDMI.
And right after the opening body tag let's create an unordered list and begin counting to 10.
So one two three four.
Let's go ahead and save this and check out the browser.
Now let's imagine that counting to four took a lot of time and energy.
So let's say it's 5 p.m. and it's time to stop working for the day before we call it quits.
Let's go ahead and commit this change.
So let's run get status.
Let's go ahead and add this file to our staging area.
So get add everything get.
Status.
All right.
So this staging area looks good to me.
I'm ready to commit get commit.
Let's make the message counted to four.
All right.
Now let's imagine that it's the next morning and I can't work on my count to 10 project right away.
There's a few pressing issues back in the master branch that I want to work on so I can switch back
to my master branch get check out master.
And now that we are working with the master branch we see that our count to ten list is gone because
it only exists in the count to ten branch.
So let's imagine that we are working on the master branch for a few hours and we find a break in our
day where we can work on our count to ten feature again.
So we just jump back to the command line and switch back to that branch.
So get check out.
Count to 10 we see that our list is back let's start counting again.
Five six seven maybe that's all we have time for that day looking good.
So before we head out for the day we commit those changes add everything to the staging area go ahead
and committed get commit counted to seven.
Let's imagine it's the next morning and we can continue to work on our count to 10 project and this
time we actually have time to finish it.
So a 9 10 amazing.
So let's go ahead and commit those changes
completed that count to 10.
All right.
So now that our count to ten feature is complete it's no longer a work in progress.
It's good to go.
We can merge it into our master branch.
So to do that let's switch back to our master branch.
Get check out master.
So back in the master branch.
Obviously that list doesn't exist but we can add it to the master branch by using gets merge feature.
So in the command line while we have the master branch check it out.
Let's run get merge and then the name of the branch that we want to merge into master.
So count to ten.
So we still have the master branch checked out.
But if we check the browser there's the list.
Now let's go ahead and push our master branch up to get hub so we can see a visualization of all the
comments.
So let's run get push origin master and let's visit get hub dot com.
So here is my travel site repo on github.
Yours would be located at GitHub dot com and then your user name instead of this user name and then
whatever repo name you chose.
All right.
So if we click here on commits we see that here is the comment we made at the beginning of this lesson
to the master branch right after we made this comment.
We created a new branch off of master count to 10 and in that count to 10 branch we made these three
comments.
Now these comments were not a part of the master branch until we performed the merge.
Once we merged get took the commit history of the count to ten branch and added it to the master branch
history.
All right.
So that's one example of how to merge one branch into another.
We used the command line to perform the merge.
Really quickly I want to show you another way to merge branch.
We can actually have get hub perform the merge for us.
So let's go ahead and create another brand new branch as another example.
Currently we are on the master branch so let's branch off of it create a new branch named count to 15
let's go ahead and switch over to that new branch or check out the new branch.
So get check out count to 15.
And in this new branch let's expand this list to count up to 15
so eleven twelve thirteen maybe that's all we can get done in a day so we commit that change before
we head out and here's a quick commit tip if you know that you only made a few small changes and you
don't want to have to deal with the staging area in detail you can actually stage and commit your files
in one move so we can run get commit dash a.m. So this will commit all changes to our tracked files
and then we can include a message like always counted to 13.
All right so we committed that change.
Now before we go home for the day we can actually push this individual branch up to get hub so that
way even if our computer explodes our code will be safe to push this branch up to get her.
We can just say get push origin which points towards our remote repo up on github and then the name
of the branch that we want to push.
So in this case instead of Master we want to push count to 15 now if I jump over to GitHub dot com and
check out the page for my travel site repo.
We can click on commits.
Now we don't see our latest commit here because we are currently looking at the master branch.
So if we click this and switch it to the new count to 15 branch that we just pushed there is our latest
commit.
All right.
Now let's jump back to our text editor and complete this feature.
So 14 15 this new feature is complete.
Let's go ahead and commit our change get commit dash am completed the count to 15.
So this new count to 15 feature is complete.
Which means it's ready to be merged into the master branch.
But this time around instead of using our command line to perform the merge let's just push the count
to 15 branch up to get hub and let GitHub handle the merging get push origin count to 15.
So if we jump back to get hub and visit the home page for this repo we see that get hub added this row
that reads your recently pushed branches.
Here's our count to 15 branch and on the far right we see a compare and pull request button.
Let's go ahead and click that so on this screen we are creating a pull request a pull request is basically
a request to merge one branch into another.
So we are considering the master branch our base and the count to 15 branch is the branch that we want
to merge in.
Now often when you use get hub you will be working together with other developers on a team.
So this is your chance to write a bit of a comment so you could say Hey team in this amazing branch
I counted to 15.
I'm very proud of this amazing code.
Let's add it to master Hall right.
And you would usually assign this poor request to someone else on your team.
That way they can do a bit of a peer review on your code and make sure that things truly look good before
merging it in the master.
Now in this course or on this project we are running so low.
So let's just go ahead and assign this to ourselves.
So click a signings and then you can just click your own name here scroll down a bit and then click
Create pull request
so here is the review screen for that poll request that we just created.
Here's a nice summary.
It says that we want to merge two comets into master from count to 15.
Now because we are the only developer on this project and we assigned to this poor request to ourselves
we have the authority to scroll down and click merge pull request.
We can go ahead and click this confirm merge button and we see that the pull request was successfully
merged and closed.
We also see a convenient delete branch button here.
Once a branch has been merged in the master there's not much of a reason to keep that extra branch around.
It's a good practice to keep your repo clean and delete unnecessary branches.
So let's go ahead and click delete branch.
Perfect.
Now if we jump back to our command line and check out our master branch get check out master we see
that our list stopped at 10.
We don't have the latest 11 to 15 code.
This is because the merge happened on get hubs servers not on our local copy of the repo.
So all we need to do is pull in the latest copy of master from GitHub down to our machine.
So get pull origin master and now our local copy of the master branch has the latest code.
Let's keep the local copy of our repo clean by deleting unnecessary branches.
So if we run the get branch command to list all of the branches we see count to 15 which was deleted
on the Github servers but it wasn't deleted in our local copy of the repo.
So let's go ahead and delete that locally.
We can just type get branch dash D and then the name of the branch we want to delete.
So count to 15.
Perfect.
Let's also delete the count to 10 branch get branch dash D count to 10.
So if we run get branch again we see we are right back where we started.
We only have one branch and its name is M..
The only difference is that now we have these completely pointless numbers.
We didn't actually want these.
They were just an example exercise.
So let's go ahead and delete those right now delete that unordered list.
Go ahead and save that.
Perfect.
Let's go ahead and commit that change get commit.
Dash am removed.
Test numbers.
And now we truly are right where we started at the beginning of this lesson except at this point.
We now have an understanding of get branches.
Now there are a few other topics related to branches that I want to cover namely the no fast forward
option and also how to deal with merge conflicts.
But we will have to cover those in a future lesson because I feel like there's already been more than
enough to absorb in this lesson.
But before we bring this lesson to a close we know that in our next lesson we will be transforming this
our features section from this into how it should look.
Based on our design file which is this.
So in this lesson while we are still on the topic of branches why don't we jump to the command line
and create a new branch named our features.
So we know that we can create a new branch by typing get branch and then the name of the branch we want
our features but instead let me show you a trick where we can create a new branch and switch to it or
check it out in one move.
We can type get check out dash be for branch and then the name of the new branch that we want to create.
So our features.
All right.
So we created a new branch and we switched over to it.
So now we are ready to begin working on the our feature section.
I'm looking forward to styling and building that out with you.
It's going to be a lot of fun.
Let's keep rolling along and I will see you in the next lesson.